In this video, we're going to write out just a little bit of code to get a better idea of what's going
on with these types.
Now, this first little bit of code that we're going to write around types is going to be really simple
and straightforward just to kind of hammer home some of the concepts that we've been talking about.
But on some of the other examples or other topics that we're going to discuss very shortly, we're going
to write out much more complete code snippets.
So anyways, let's get started.
I'm going to begin by flipping on over to my code editor.
I'm still inside of my fetched JSON directory.
I'm going to change out into my workspace folder and then side up here.
I'm going to make a new project directory to hold all these different code snippets we're going to put
together as we're going through some basic features of TypeScript.
So I'm going to make a new directory here called Features.
I'll then change into that directory and then I'll open up my code editor inside there.
Once my editor is open and then going to make a new file and I'm just going to call it typists.
So like I said, I just want to write out one or two quick snippets of code just to get a better idea
of what's going on.
So I want you to remember that the entire idea behind this type system is that it is an easy way for
us to refer to the different properties and functions that a value has.
In addition, every value, everything that we can assign to a variable has a type.
So to get started, I'm going to flip back over to my code editor and I want to just try creating a
variable that's going to point to an instance of a date object.
So I'll say const today is going to be new date like so.
If I hover over that variable, my editor will then tell me the type of value that this variable is
pointing at.
So this is saying that the today variable is pointing at an object of type date.
TypeScript can now use that information to decide exactly what we can do with that variable.
So, for example, if I put down today and then a dot, I see my autocomplete pop up right here.
This is listing out all the different functions and properties that a date object has.
TypeScript only knows to show this information right here because it has an internal definition of exactly
what a date is.
In other words, TypeScript knows the properties and methods that a date has, so it can print them
up in this list right here.
And I can easily select one and call it like so.
And then, as we saw just a moment ago, because TypeScript knows what methods a date has and what properties
it has, if we try to reference one that doesn't exist, we will very quickly get an error message.
So that's the whole point of types.
It is a shortcut to say here are the different properties and methods that this value right here has.
Okay.
So that's an example of looking at the type that a date object brings up.
Let's now try creating a plain JavaScript object.
So let's say something like const person.
Is going to be an object like so.
And I'll give this person, how about like just an age of 20?
If I now hover over that person variable, I'll see a person or person excuse me.
And then right after that, in this case, I don't get a nice name for the type because I've not actually
given this object right here, a name, a shortened name, so we can kind of see our definition.
That of a type kind of holds up here.
If we don't have a shortened definition of what this object is, then TypeScript is just going to default
to printing out all the different properties and methods that the object has.
So in this case, it has just an age that is a number.
And once again, if we try to reference some property on that variable that doesn't actually exist,
we're going to get an error message.
Okay.
Just one more quick example here.
So down here, I'm going to try to create a class.
I'll call it color.
I'm not going to give it any implementation.
Now, even if you don't know what a class is, that's totally fine.
We're going to go into great detail on classes later on.
I can now use this class to make a new instance of a color.
So I'll say like say red is new color like so.
And now, just as we've seen twice before.
Now, if I hover over read, TypeScript knows that this variable is pointing at an object that is of
type color.
That means that this variable right here has access to all the properties and all the methods that a
color object has.
In this case, none, because we haven't actually implemented anything here.
And we can see that if we write out a red and then dot like.
So there are no properties associated with this class of color.
So we don't get any autocomplete whatsoever.
And if I try to reference anything as usual, I'll get a very quick error message here as well.
Okay.
So that's just a couple of quick example examples of types.
So let's take a quick pause right here.
We're going to wrap up this idea of types with a quick discussion, really quick, I promise, on where
we're going to use types in a normal project.
So quick pause and I'll see you in just a minute.